---
title:
  - Marketing Strategies
  - On Marketing Strategies
  - Complementary Marketing Strategies
  - Additional Marketing Strategies
  - More Marketing Strategies
---

The price keeps sliding down, social media follower counts are not growing, excellent content generated by our community still gets very few views, and people are still not talking about Decred all over the place.

_(hoping for a catchy opener here)_

Contracts for Ditto phase 2, Marketing 2019 and Events 2019 move to their end. Together with Ditto's phase 1, these 4 marketing proposals are collectively capped at $790,000 for ~1 year. (I deliberately use "capped" because we don't know how much was actually spent, but this is a separate problem*). Note that these expenses are happening at DCR rates that I find very low, so it costs a lot to the Treasury.

The spendings brought us some good results but haven't yet addressed a few big concerns of mine. Thinking what we are missing I've been collecting ideas and organizing them in additional marketing strategies presented below.

**Money**

Use "money" much more often _first_, and _later_ mention complex terms like "decentralized superior store of value for generations to come", "self-directed digital currency" or "Secure. Adaptable. Sustainable". Don't throw it away - it's all important and I'm glad we [figured it out](https://github.com/decredcommunity/pr/blob/release/foundational-messaging.md), just don't open with it.

Talk about what's going on with traditional money\*. Talk about why prices keep going up despite all our technological progress. Talk about the financial crisis of 2008, remind when and and why Bitcoin launched and what did it have in its first block. Talk about the new QE round from the ECB (is it 4th?) and "its-not-QE4-stay-calm" from the FRB. Make people look at the bills they use _every day_, and for the first time _think_ where they come from, who creates it and for how long this can keep going until the next major "oopsie".

When the person is ready and begins to appreciate crypto, an obvious next question is why not just use a more established currency? And here we must clearly communicate that in Decred you have a say because you are the one risking your wealth\*. This is not true for pure PoW systems where as a holder you have to rely on 3rd parties making good decisions for you. Ironically, crypto was made to remove this trust. Decred, arguably for the first time, gives us a chance to have money that serves us\* without security compromises of pure PoS systems.

Because I believe Decred's nearest [major goal](https://www.reddit.com/r/decred/comments/dgck7e/what_is_decreds_end_goal/) is delivering us sound money, I would not _pitch_ it as "DAO" or anything too distant from sound money. When you set the goal to land on the Moon, you get all kinds of amazing inventions and breakthroughs on the way, but your goal is the Moon.

(traders, apologies for using this metaphor right now)

**Honesty**

Be honest about Decred's status. Always be ready to farily present what we _do_ and _do not_ have yet. Decred is _not_ a good SoV yet:

- It has low liquidity and exchange adoption. On the positive side, we get new integrations every month and liquidity fix is getting closer.
- Self-custody UX is a huge pain point. Like in all crypto.
- [Privacy](https://github.com/decredcommunity/issues/issues/25) is not solved yet. I would even argue that voting [address reuse](https://github.com/decred/dcrstakepool/issues/311) made it _less private_ than Bitcoin. Glad to see it getting attention now because it is required for Decred's CoinShuffle++ rollout. This has potential to provide much greater and more accessible privacy than in Bitcoin. 
- Also important, and let's not ignore it, the price is sliding down. People _will_ get puzzled if you tell them about SoV and then show the price chart where it is losing not only against USD, but _also_ against BTC*.

We need clarity on the status. Decred is _building_ a decent SoV and MoE. We build on great principles and we got the incentives right. In this regard Decred is years ahead of the competition, and to me it is the only approach that makes sense and deserves my time. Decred also has a huge technical lead. I would say we're like 50% there in terms of tech, but in terms of awareness and adoption in economics and society it's &lt; 1%. (I made these numbers up for illustrative purposes).

**Value transfer tool**

Don't omit MoE use case from discussions. I believe SoV and MoE depend on each other and don't make any sense on their own*.

While DCR is not ready to serve our everyday purchases, it _already_ serves as Transfer of Value (ToV)*.

Decred and some other cryptos could and should be used _today_ to power great projects we need ASAP*.

I personally use DCR to support one project I find very promising and it feels so right with every transfer**, instead of just hoarding my DCR. The project is [EOMA68](https://www.crowdsupply.com/eoma68/micro-desktop) and it is building an ecosystem of open, easily upgradeable and cheap computers (pluggable "computer cards"). A computer must serve its _owner_, be auditable down to the bone to earn owner's trust, be upgradeable to encourage reuse, and the whole ecosystem must be designed with long-term mindset to reduce e-waste. We need secure devices that we can trust. Or are you going to run sovereign decentralized finance on backdoored laptops and phones? But that's another story*.

Internet allows people to share and coordinate information. Sound and open money allows people to share and coordinate energy.

I want to see Decred as a value transfer network for builders. It can start as [Hacker](http://www.catb.org/jargon/html/H/hacker.html)'s Coin* and evolve to connect other builders of this world.

**Reach to people to whom it really matters**

More media placements is always good, especially in big places. But crypto sites generate crypto articles all the time. Does Decred stand out from hundreds of other coins covered every day? Do we have any view count stats? Did we onboard any significant number of users or investors or 1-2 good devs fia Forbes, Yahoo Finance or CoinDesk?

Big events like Consensus are good to have presence at, but again did they bring us anything?

Do builders and people who need a decent SoV and MoE visit those sites and events at all?

Sadly I have no idea.

A complementary strategy I would seriously consider is targeted outreach to selected and very relevant groups*. Not automated advertising but targeted awareness push. Train quality representatives/ambassadors, go to these communities and let them know what we're building, and stay in touch in case they wish to learn more.

There are many communities that are already aligned with Decred community's values yet we don't actively talk to them. Just to name a few topics, I mean communities and groups who deeply care about sovereignty, financial sovereignty, unorthodox (non-brainwashed) economic schools, sound monetary policy (and alternatives/complements to their weak currencies), building and maintaining open source/free software (and hardware!) where it is needed most, privacy, building better protocols and services without "surveillance included", small government proponents, off-grid living, etc.

Reach like 100 of such communities and see if it makes a difference.

**At the same time, don't panic**

We should keep our heads cool at any price. I'm not saying Ditto or Marketing 2019 is doing useless work or is overpriced. I just don't know. All I see is we need _more_ to move this old trend where Decred is some obscure tech brilliance.

To stay cool, focused and productive (you want the change or what?) I recommend:

- Think and identify **specific issues** and present them to the community.
- Don't mix multiple issues into big scary abstractions. Be like a laser that slices off one problem after another. This is where divide and conquer should be applied.
- If you cant isolate issues, at least present your findings and concerns. Just don't spread FUD in your and others' heads.
- **Avoid fragmentation** of the community and maximize the exposure of any additional marketing efforts.
  - Small **working groups** is okay (we have a ton of them), I'm against **discussing** important issues and hiding efforts to address them in private groups.
  - It is in the best interest of any new effort to get as many eyeballs and support as possible, which can (and should) lead to support from the Treasury and "conversion" of your "competitors".
  - Focus on problems, decisions and actions, not personalities. This is what our direct voting is about, remember?
  - Do not fear to communicate, share and negotiate*.
  - There are cases when sensitive information must not be disclosed until a certain point, but after that point open discussions must flow.
- Stay sober, do not overfocus on _some_ negative trends (price, social media metrics) and become blind to positive trends (more conversations about Decred, more investors, more devs, more research, more events all over the world, network is healthy, dev never stops, etc - I hope you read [DJ](https://xaur.github.io/decred-news/)!)

Phew! That was quick typing. Looks like these ideas got tired of sitting in my head for so long.

Thanks for your precious attention!

If you see value in my perspective, or would like to signal that I should finish my drafts (*) sooner, or if you would like to experience the joy of permissionless value transfer (**), I'll happily accept tips here:

{D...}
